Now we have a camera.js,
which again looks, really,
really similar to what we had,
if not identical.
The only difference is that it
is taking in a preview canvas.
Argument, parameter,
which would be that little canvas that's
in the modal that we put there for
a preview, okay?
And all this other stuff is great.
It's saying, okay,
if I have a preview canvas,
then when the video is ready to play, and
we're using our canplay listener here for
that meaning like when the video is
like got some stream data coming in.
Then we're gonna run this
drop preview function.
And then we noticed we have our like our
draw video which looks the same as what we
did before of drawing an image to
the canvas from the video element,
that's we already did that.
Drawpreview looks very very
similar with one small difference.
The call to draw image, well it's a little
bit, it's using one of those fancier,
elaborate options of the ways
you can tell Canvas what to do.
Essentially what this is doing is scaling
down the video to fit in a smaller
Canvas so that I'm not just drawing
like a corner of my forehead.
But this is all we looked at the docs and
we saw kind of how we can access the video
width and the canvas width and
all of that stuff.
So this is what's happening in this call.
And if I did that once I would
get my just small little selfie.
But what we're doing is
putting that draw image
inside of a set interval
callback which is running
every 16 milliseconds,
so essentially every,
I think that's, what is that,
60 hertz or something?
Whatever the fastest, basically,
refresh rate that the browser and
the video are both kind of able to do.
Okay, so now,
what else is happening in our main.js?
Now, we know some of these APIs,
essentially that our various
modules are kind of exposing.
Which, again, these are choices that,
well, I made a lot of the choices,
you might decide you
want different choices.
And you are totally free to refactor
a codebase like this as you would like.
We'll talk about it in a second.
And essentially, like I said, there's
only one other little extra thing that
is happening here that we haven't really
talked about in our quick wins, which is.
Okay, so the memecanvas is
that the big main Canvas.
But instead of drawing directly to that,
what I've done is I've split
out two kind of like secret canvay
elements of canvas elements.
So I'm creating new elements that
are never attached to the page.
They're never actually rendered
visually for the user to see but
what this allows me to do is to have
essentially separate layers one for
the selfie and then one for the text,
That are the same width and
height as the memeCanvas, both of them.
And what that lets me do is create
a little redrawMeme function,
That is using again,
that's same draw image.
It's grabbing our memeCanvas context,
and it's using our same,
our good old friend drawImage, which we're
just doing the simplest version of here.
Because we know that we already
made sure the width and
the height are the same for all of these.
And you can pass in anything here that
Canvas API knows how to interpret
as an image, right?
So we passed in a video.
You could also pass in like a .jpeg or
whatever that you've loaded into
the browser, but
we can even pass in another Canvas,
because Canvas knows how
to make an image of that.
That's how we could like save
image by right clicking.
So what we're doing is we're creating
ourselves a little redraw function so
that basically any time one of
the two changes, either layer,
we can redraw the selfie and
then redraw the fresh text.
So that we're not piling up just
text objects on top of each other,
on the Canvas, and then you wouldn't
be able to read them, yeah?
>> So there's no step to [LAUGH] since
the memeCanvas is made up of these other
layers., you don't have to clear them out
because they're stacked on each other.
By the way,
Canvas knows how to do its thing, right?
>> So,
that's actually a very good question and
it's something that we can kind
of decide how we're doing.
And okay,
we're jumping ahead a little bit but,
let's take a look at some of
these draw functions, shall we?
So we have this drawText function and
our text.js, and the text is really
the one that's going to be a problem
here because when we're redrawing.
For example,
in our drop preview where we're redrawing
that image every 16 milliseconds.
Yes, there it is overwriting the data for
the entire Canvas because it's
always the same sized image.
So it's essentially like blasting
away all the previous pixels and
putting in new pixels and blasting
those away again every 16 milliseconds.
But text as we saw,
it doesn't take up the entire frame,
it's kind of weird like transparent,
the holes in the letters and stuff.
So Canvas knows how with the drawText
method which we use already.
It knows how to kind of
figure all that out and
like only overwrite the pixels that
correspond to where the font based on
I'm using impact and
not Comic Sans or whatever.
However, since that is not all
of the pixels on the Canvas,
when we draw that text, sorry, wrong tab.
When we draw that text, we do want to make
sure that we're clearing any previous
text that's on the canvas.
So thank you for
reminding me to mention that.
And there is a method for that,
there's an app for that [LAUGH],
there's an API for that.
And it's called, same as we had drawRect
when we drew our beautiful JavaScript
logo, we drew a yellow rectangle.
We also can clearRect, and if we make
the Rect that we're clearing as big
as the canvas so starting from 00 and
going all the way to width height,
the whole thing,
then we're clearing the whole canvas.
This is basically saying,
get rid of all the pixels you had before,
and then it'll be filling
text like we saw before.
Just for a little better readability and
contrast, as and
meminess, we're also adding a stroke or
sort of an outline around that text with
the corresponding strokeText method.
Which is, again you can go on MDN and read
all about all of how all these work and
everything, but essentially fill is
like the inside of an object and
the stroke is the outline of the object.
And we're setting up some styles,
some colours,
some fonts got to have that impact.
[LAUGH] And
that is then what we're redrawing
on our new blank slate of a canvas.
So what's happening is that we're
not actually clearing the main
canvas because every time we redraw
the selfie it already sort of clears for
us by redrawing all those pixels.
And then when we draw the text
canvas on top of that.
I want main here we are okay so
then when we draw.
So first we draw the selfieLayer
to the memeContext, and
that essentially is indistinguishable
from first doing like a memecontext,
clearRect width, height, 00 width height.
Because we know that the selfieLayer
is the exact same dimensions.
And that the video is the exact
same dimensions and so
it's gonna redraw all those pixels anyway.
So we don't need to bother
making them transparent and
then filling them back in again
we can just redraw on top of it.
And the canvas itself doesn't
have any concept of layers,
it's just pixels it knows that
there's x and a y and a pixel.
That's what it knows.
So that's why we have to kind of implement
our own layering if we want things
like that transparency of the text, right?
And since we're gonna be hacking on this,
y'all can find out what happens
if you don't do this and
why we're doing it this way.
But suffice it to say.
We're using all the same tools
with the addition of clearRect,
which is pretty analogous to drawRect.
We're using all the same API's and
same things that we already used.
We're also taking advantage of the fact
that a canvas is an image as far as
the browser is concerned.
And so we can use drawImage
with another canvas as data to
fill in our beautiful meme.
And the selfie tech, the selfieCanvas,
and the selfieLayerCanvas and
the textLayerCanvas, the user never
actually sees those two canvases.
I don't know why the plural
of Canvas is just,
I'm not satisfied with
any of these solutions.
>> It would be Canvi.
>> Exactly, can be like be, whatever.
Anyway, neither of these two layer
canvases is exposed to the user.
They essentially just exist for
us to save some data to,
if you think of it that way.
And we had that case like a couple
of times where we were for example,
creating elements secretly before we
actually render them by attaching them.
Or appending them to elements
that are in the DOM.
Okay, so
I believe we've now covered pretty
much everything that's going on here.
Again, other than the CSS and things like
that which you can peruse at your leisure.
And then in terms of how I got this up
onto anjana.dev/meme-me it's the exact
same thing that we just did for
our selfie cam.
So that's where we have a github/workflow
in here, exact same file,
deploy pages, YAML, and we have that
vite.config.js, exact same thing,
just with a different base path for
the different repo name.
And everything else is like all stuff
that we just did with the selfieCam.